[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: In conjunction with
the if statement there's
a different kind of statement.
It's called a for statement.
And the anatomy of this
one is kind of tricky.
So, the counter,
which is the first expression,
is going to be a variable that
keeps track of what step you're on.
It's separated by a semicolon
from a second expression
which is the counting to and
this is the goal.
It's how many total steps
we're going to take
on the statement that's inside of this for
loop.
The increment counter is how we're
going to change our variable,
our counter, to get to the goal.
So we're gonna keep incrementing
a counter and keep running the expression
inside of this for loop that many
times until we reach our stop point.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
here's a simple example.
We have this variable called text,
it's a string.
We have a for loop here, so
we start at the number 0.
We continue until our
variable i goes over five.
That's our stopping point.
And then we increment our
variable i over and over.
And so if we run this piece of code,
what it's doing Is a pending,
a blank, a space,
and the number i into this text variable.
And then it's printing it out.
When it prints it out we'll see that
number 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 were added on.
So, let's do a really simple example.
So here's the anatomy of a for.
We start with our variable.
You might see this a lot.
The variable called i is generally
used for a counter in programming.
We're going to go until i is less than or
equal to seven.
And the way that we change
i to get to that point,
is by adding one to it with each set.
I'll just print out i.
>> Speaker 2: You need to increment i,
not 7.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yes, sorry.
Nice catch.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
that'll print out the number 0 through 7.
When you're writing for loops,
be careful that this middle condition
is something that can be met.
For example, if I change this to i--,
this loop would go on forever
because there's no stopping point.
And there really is no
forever in computing,
so it'd probably throw up at some
point and give you a big error.
So, make sure that that middle condition
is something that's achievable and
that your counter is going up or down or
doing something that's gonna
help you reach your goal.
The fun part about for loops is we can
use them to Iterate over an array so,
by calling for exact length we know how
many items we have in our array and we can
use a counter and go up to the end of
that list, and do something, stuff in it.
It doesn't matter how long the array is
because we're using a dynamic variable.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
let's do this exercise.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We got our fruits.
We're iterating over them.
We're outputting the value
to this HTML page here.
We're writing <br> which is HTML for
a new line.
And then, we're writing what the value of
the fruit is at that position in the list.
Okay.
So, let's do an exercise.
Let's add some items to that array
at the top and run the code again.
I'm sorry, let's add some items using
fruit.push and then write a for
loop down here.
And we'll just write that code again.
So fruits.push whatever
you want to put in there.
And let's do that a few times and
see how that changes our for loop.
>> Speaker 3: Does push always
just add one thing or can you add,
do you have to like repeat the whole push
command to get a second thing on there?
>> Nina Zakharenko: You can use
append I believe to another list.
>> Speaker 3: List, okay.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So.
>> Speaker 2: It's concat, not append.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Concat.
Thank you.
The syntax for
this is always slightly different in
whatever programming language you use.
So it's easy to mix things up.
Okay so, let's put in an extra
document dot right in here
to see what's in our fruits.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So we got five things
in it now, let's write a for loop.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So does anyone have
questions about why we're using i in here?
No.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So if we run this,
we'll just get this list appended at
the end of the one that we printed
out here, because we didn't.
What's that?
>> Speaker 3: What's happened to apricot?
>> Speaker 2: So just say fruits equals.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Good catch,
there we go.
Snuck out of there.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Right, and the reason
we're doing this is because fruits.concat
does not actually modify our fruits list.
It returns a new list
that contains both lists.
So you have to remember to set it
back to your original variable here.
>> Speaker 4: I couldn't hear that,
what was that?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
fruits.concat does not actually modify
the original fruits list that we had.
So we have to remember to set it back
here because fruits.concat returns
a whole new array with the values
of both lists combined.
>> Speaker 4: So the array is not
immutable but if you use concat,
it almost acts like it is?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Not really.
So let me open up the console real quick.
We have a list here of names.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We have a list.
Call it animals.
We got kitty.
So if we do names.concat(animals)
It'll return a new list
with both things combined.
But our original list is left intact.
So we could say that names-
>> Speaker 4: There's no assignment
in it then.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Right.
If I did names = names.concat we'll see
that names now contains both things.
Is everyone done with the iterate
over an array exercise?
Did you guys all write your for loops?